"Exploring the Relationship between Stress and Health Parameters: An IoT-ML Driven Approach"


About this Project -

From the background study, we can say that the early we get info about symptoms/abnormal movement of our body, the more chance we have to save ourselves from disease/severe attacks. With the help of sensor, we are building a Stress Monitoring app which will display a Person's Heart rate, SpO2 (oxygen% in the body) level concentration , body temperature,Limb movement. Using MAX30100 Heart Rate Sensor we are measuring all these value and with the help of NodeMCU we are sending all these data to firebase cloud which will fetched by StressLess app made with MIT App inventor and displayed in the App. All the memeber can monitor their family member vitals and furthermore any abnormality in pulse rate/oxygen concentraion will be alerted to user .Using standerd value, the current condition will be displayed in the app.

Stress, a prevalent condition with wide-ranging implications for health and well-being, necessitates accurate and timely detection to enable effective intervention and support. Here we had explored the use of various bio-signals to detect stress and mitigate associated health conditions. Specifically, the study focuses on analyzing Internet of Things (IoT) sensed data inconjunction with Machine Learning (ML) algorithms.The study examines the impact of stress detection by employing techniques such as heart rate readings, Pulse sensor, and ESP32. The collected datasets are categorized using ML algorithms, including Decision Tree, K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Support Vector Machines (SVM), and Logistic Regression (LR). Performance evaluation metrics such as Precision, Accuracy, F1 score and Recall are utilized to assess the effectiveness of the data analysis. The findings demonstrate the superior performance of Decision Tree as a stress classifier.

This work contributes to the growing body of knowledge on stress detection and highlights the potential for integrating IoT and ML in stress management applications.
